We are
beginning with breaking news
in the Israel-Hamas war.
Sources telling CNN
that the terror group Hamas
has released two more hostages
who are believed to
be Israeli citizens Anderson.
Yes, you know,
two Americans were released last week.
Sources
also saying that today's release
is happening
with the help of officials from Qatar
who are involved in the other release,
as well as well as Egypt this time.
CNN chief national security correspondent
Alex Marquardt
joins us with some details,
along with CNN anchor Kaitlan Collins.
Caitlin, let's start with you.
What exactly do we know?
Obviously, we have some information
that we are not giving out
until all of this is confirmed,
because this is still
a very fluid situation.
They are not in
Israel, is my understanding.
Right.
It's an incredibly fluid situation.
And so we are holding off
on some of the details
while we run those down,
because this is a very
sensitive situation.
We want to make sure we get everything
completely right.
But what we do know
is that two more hostages
have been released by Hamas.
We are told
I'm told that they're not actually
in the custody
of the Israeli government yet,
but that they are on the way there
right now.
And so that is part of the sensitivity
around this reporting
about these hostages.
Obviously, given their situation.
But this is significant.
I am told that they are both
two female hostages
that have been released.
They, of course, would be only the third
and the fourth hostages in total
to be released in the hundreds
That we do believe,
according to the IDF,
that Hamas has in their custody
at this moment.
And so what we are
still trying to figure out, Anderson, is
whether or not they are dual citizens.
We do know they are Israeli citizens,
but maybe they have dual nationalities,
as we've seen
with a lot of these hostages
and the people
who were abducted by Hamas.
So those are details
that we are still trying to figure out.
But it does appear that this came about
from some quiet mediation
that was happening
behind the scenes with the Egyptian
and Qatar governments
that have been obviously playing
a really significant role
in trying to get these hostages
released,
because Israel has made very clear
from all officials
that they are not personally negotiating
with Hamas
for the release of these hostages.
And I do think this is a big part
of what we are seeing here
when it comes to the timing of what
everyone is waiting to happen
next in Gaza,
which is that
Israeli ground invasion
that we know
officials have said
and telegraphed quite
clearly is expected to come.
There have been discussions with U.S.
officials, with other government
officials about holding off on that
until more of these negotiations
for these hostages can happen.
And so right now,
what we are working to confirm
is the identities of these two hostages,
where exactly they are now.
And once
they get into the custody of the IDF,
which, Anderson,
as you know, is
what happened with those two hostages
last week, they came to the Gaza border.
They were
then given over to the IDF
who brought them to a military base
first in central Israel.
That's where they greeted
their parents before
having those medical checkups
and obviously kind of debriefings
of what they've been going through.
Yeah, And Alex, there's
usually this interim step right handed.
Usually Hamas,
wherever it's holding them,
hands them over to the representatives
of the international community,
the Red Cross,
and then they make that transfer
to two IDF officials.
These are two.
There were two that
the remains who we talked about
last week.
Let's talk about the timing of this.
Clearly,
Hamas has many captives in their custody.
They could release all of them
if they wanted to.
They are releasing them two by two.
What does that tell you?
Well, it's certainly good news.
No one's going to tell you
otherwise, Anderson.
This is fantastic for those families
as well as for the Russians
who saw two of their family members
come back on Friday.
But no doubt, Anderson,
whether it's the U.S.
or Israel or Qatar,
which is leading these negotiations
along with Egypt.
They would like to see
much bigger numbers.
I mean,
we heard from the IDF earlier today
that there are
some 222 hostages who are in custody.
So we certainly don't want to see, you
know, this
these hostages coming out two by two.
The the the
Qataris are
now pushing
for much bigger numbers,
say dozens or scores of the civilians
of the foreigners
who are still in custody.
In terms of the mechanics, Anderson,
you know, obviously,
Hamas is not going to come face
to face with Israeli officials
as they hand over prisoners.
So you have the U.N.,
which operates independently inside Gaza.
You have the Red Cross, which operates
fairly independently inside Gaza.
And so what has happened today,
we understand, as like
it did on Friday,
the same mechanism of Hamas
handing these two captives
over to the Red Cross.
They will
then be taken
to somewhere along the border.
We don't know where.
There are two formal
large border crossings in southern Gaza.
One goes into Egypt,
one goes into Israel.
But frankly,
there are
there are a number of places
all along that fence line
where you are seeing today
all of those Israeli troops
where the Red Cross could
then hand those two Israeli
women over to the IDF,
as Caitlin mentioned.
They would
then likely be taken to a military base
to get checked up to make sure
that they're okay.
Hamas has claimed
that the previous release
was for humanitarian reasons.
It's not clear
what shape the run on women are in.
But we do understand
from the White House today that the U.S.
that U.S.
officials have debriefed
or are going to debrief
the two Americans
to gather intelligence,
to get a sense of where they were
held, how they were held,
and any other kind of information
that they could glean
from those two women.
But, Anderson, certainly
the bottom line here is that
everyone wants to see
a lot more hostages being released.
And that is why there is this pressure
on the Israeli government
to delay their incursion
into Gaza Anderson.
Yeah, and the international
Committee of the Red Cross has
has repeatedly requested access
to all the hostages who remain in Gaza.
They have not been allowed access.
They've also requested proof of life.
Last we heard, they had not received
any of that
from from those holding them
as long as jihad or Hamas.